# Msc_Thesis_Yuxuan

The databases used in laser spectroscopy generally include line specific information about the following parameters:
• Absorption line positions, i.e. transition frequencies (wavenumbers). Since each molecular species has its own characteristic spectrum (“molecular fingerprint”), the line positions make it possible to identify different species in the gas mixture unambiguously.
• Absorption line strength, also known as line intensity. If we know the line intensity, we can calculate the concentration of target molecules in our sample.
• Linewidths, which were introduced in Chapter 2.5. The spectral linewidths are often needed for reliable quantification of trace gas concentrations, as was already illustrated by Approach 2 of Ch. 3.1.
• The databases typically include additional parameters, which are needed to calculate temperature and pressure dependent corrections to line positions, intensities and widths. For example, recall that the line frequency and width depend on the gas pressure.

The most popular molecular spectroscopy database is HITRAN (High-resolution transmission molecular absorption database, **https://hitran.org/**), which currently contains spectroscopic data of millions of absorption lines for 55 different molecules, including different isotopologues. The database is frequently updated with new lines and with data of improved accuracy. The most important updates are summarized in research articles that are published every four years in the Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy & Radiative Transfer and can be found on the HITRAN website. The latest edition is HITRAN2020.

In practice, the HITRAN data can be accessed using various online tools, for example:
• **https://hitran.org** is the official website of HITRAN. In particular, see https://hitran.org/docs/definitions-and-units/, which summarizes the HITRAN parameters and definitions. The Data Access tab allows you to plot spectral line positions and intensities of the transitions stored in the database (requires free registration).
• **http://hitran.iao.ru/** is a free-of-charge website, which offers a good user interface to plot and list parameters like line positions and intensities. This site can also be used for spectroscopic simulations. Some of the advanced features require registration.
• **http://www.spectralcalc.com** is another free portal with a good user interface for plotting spectral line positions, as well as for quick simulations of spectra. Use of the latest HITRAN edition, as well as some of the advanced features, requires registration and payment.

It is highly recommended that you get familiar with the documentation page of the HITRAN website before starting to use the actual database. In particular, the HITRAN definitions of the listed line parameters are worth checking out.

Another high-resolution database that is used particularly by atmospheric scientists is GEISA (**https://geisa.aeris-data.fr/**), which can be accessed for example via the abovementioned Spectralcalc website. The HITRAN and GEISA databases mainly contain information about atmospherically relevant small molecules, whose spectra can be resolved line by line. Another important database is the PNNL (Pacific Northwest National Laboratory) database*, which lists infrared spectra of also rather complex molecules, including several hydrocarbons. Although the spectral resolution is not high enough for line-by-line assignment, the database is valuable for infrared spectroscopy.

The HITRAN webpage (**https://hitran.org/links/**) includes an extensive list of other spectroscopic databases and tools, in addition to those mentioned above. Most of these databases are based on measured data. Even though several research groups contribute to such measurements, the collection of accurate spectroscopic data is tedious and takes a lot of time – especially when temperature and pressure dependencies of the line parameters need to be assessed. If experimental data are not available, computational data can sometimes be used to predict line positions and to get ballpark estimates of line intensities. Although less accurate, the computed spectra can in many cases be determined faster. Computations can be done for conditions that are challenging to implement in laboratory experiments, such as extreme temperature or pressure. An interesting database compiled using computational methods is http://www.exomol.com/ which focuses particularly on compounds relevant to astrochemistry.
